Fireman Sam and the 40 electrics it was
the end of June Trevor Evans our take
until his price to watch Glen Morgan in
a county cricket match they have
returned to her grocery shop come house
in the bus he was paid to drive Norman
had been left home alone has dilis
inserted the key into the lock she heard
the faint sound of sobbing coming from
the kitchen come diner ma'am ma'am I
think a fuse has blown world Norman
inconsolably I put the kettle on and the
we and the trails press and the
dishwasher had the lava lamp and I was
charging my bedside light to my phone
that's a lot of electrical items stated
Trevor numerically after a little while
fireman sam found himself carrying out
tests on all the wiring electrics in the
building Cowboys he muttered irritated
ly under his breath inspection having
been completed fireman sam had concerns
who did the electrics here he asked
Tillis Mike flood the accident prone
handyman she replied well started Sam he
hasn't done a very good job in the past
he's fixed up a few houses 20 jobs in
each the fifteen percent chance were
fought for each one this house has five
major faults so he used to make three
mistakes on average and now on this one
is made five calculator trevor has he
gotten worse it's difficult to say Sam
responded I guess we'd have to perform a
lie offices test Sam perambulated to the
selection of newspapers and magazines
and took out the pierson-el excel
formula book which was being given away
as a free insert with a local rack he
sat down with dillish Trevor and Norman
and explain how hypothesis testing works
firstly we need an hypothesis such as
Mike flood is making more mistakes than
they used to and we need to select an
appropriate to the school model which in
this case will be the binomial X b20 no
point 15 we need a null hypothesis which
would be 80 p equals point 15 and an
alternative hypothesis which would be h
1 p is greater than point 15 the
situation we're testing is that mr.
flood has made five mistakes so we look
at the probability of five or more why
five or more not just five arse Norman
you just do
okay Sam started five or more is the
opposite of four fewer so that's one
take points eight to nine eight which is
point 1 702 so what do you do with that
arse Trevor you need to choose a
different level which very often is
stated as five percent comparing our arm
so we see that 17 point 0 2 percent is
more than five percent so it's not
unlikely enough to raise suspicion we
say that it's insignificant we reject
the alternative hypothesis and we state
that there was no evidence of my
father's making more mistakes and he
used to so we were just unlucky pondered
illus how many mistakes would have had
to have made for it to be significant
well that would bring us into the realm
of critical regions answered Sam stating
in advance under what conditions you
would consider a suspicion to be
justified looking at the table it would
be x is greater equal to seven because
one take x assessing equal five is point
not 673 which is still greater than five
percent whereas one take property of x
being less lugo 6 is point naught to 19
which isn't when I was at school there
was a thing called the two-tailed tests
record trevor was that all about
sometimes you need to check if something
is different to rather than just high or
lower applied Sam if you're aiming for a
five percent significance level split
that in half to make two point five
percent and then get as close as you can
two-point-five percent at the top x
equals naught probability
three-point-eight percent and as close
as possible to 2pi fibers into the
bottom x is greater equal to seven
probability to point one nine percent
finally you can work out the actual
significance level by adding 3.88 and
2.19 which gives six point zero seven
percent and so despite the potential
death trap that was the grocery shop
Mike flood was permitted to continue
causing havoc on circuit boards
throughout pontypandy